
Instructions are the way we tell objects to do things like move and change colour.  In the previous tutorials we've used built-in instructions, but they can be more flexible.  To demonstrate, we'll make a ball move back and forward between two points, and have it change colour as it does this.

***Creating the ball***

We'll use the same ball as in the last tutorial.
```javascript
function setup(){

}

function start(){
  var ball = sphere("a sphere");
  wrap(ball);
}

function update(time, player, left, right){

}
```
***State***

To be able to give an object complex instructions, we need to be able to store what state it is in.  This might be whether it should be moving left or right, whether it got hit by another object, what colour we set it to, or whatever other information we might need to save.

To use state, we first need to set it.  Here is the code we will use for setting the movement and colour states of our ball - we want to be able to say when it is moving left or right, and whether it's colour is changing to blue or to green.

```javascript
wrap(ball)
  .state({
	move: 'left',
	color: 'blue'
   });
```

The key part of this is the list of states inside; "move", and "color".  We tell a state it's starting value by writing ```move: 'left'```, so our ball will start moving left and turning blue.  These are separated by commas.

So, here is our ball with it's initial state set:

```javascript
function setup(){

}

function start(){
  var ball = sphere("a sphere");
  wrap(ball)
  .state({
	move: 'left',
	color: 'blue'
   });
}

function update(time, player, left, right){

}
```

***Instructions***

Now that we've got the starting state set, we can add an instruction.  

Here is what a move instruction might look like:

```javascript
.instruction(transitionPos("a", 1, 0, 0, 1, setKey("move", "right")))
```

There are three main parts to this, and I'll go into each:

```instruction()```

This tells the object that you are about to give it an instruction.  An instrruction is a function in javascript that has access to information about the game, where everything is, where the player is, etc.  There are a bunch of built in functions like this in the GameObjectWrapper file, including the one I'll talk about below.  

```transitionPos()```

This is the instruction itself.  Short for transition position, it tells an object to move a certain amount, in a certain time.  Here are the arguments that you need to give to this instruction:

```transitionPos(key, x, y, z, time, what_to_do_when_finished)```

***key***

This is a string or word, like "left", "right".  This is the state that the object must be in for this instruction to happen.  In our case, we want an instruction for moving left and another for moving right, so the left instruction will have the key as "left", and the right instruction will have the key as "right".

***x***

The amount in the x axis of space that we want the object to move.

***y***

The amount in the y axis of space that we want the object to move.

***z***

The amount in the z axis of space that we want the object to move.

***time***

This is the amount of time we want the instruction to take.  If we give it 1, it will move the whole distance in 1 second.

***what_to_do_when_finished***

What we're passing it here is actually another javascript function, that will run when the movement is completed.  In our left case, we are giving it ```setKey("move", "right")```.  

***setKey("move", "right")***

This tells the instruction that when it is completed, we should set the "move" part of our state to "right".  This will make the object start moving right instead, once we add that instruction.

So, lets add our two movement instructions.  With this, the ball will go left, right, left, right forever.

```javascript
function setup(){

}

function start(){
  var ball = sphere("a sphere");
  wrap(ball)
  .state({
	move: 'left',
	color: 'blue'
   })
   .instruction(transitionPos("left", 1, 0, 0, 1, setKey("move", "right")))
   .instruction(transitionPos("right", -1, 0, 0, 1, setKey("move", "left")));
}

function update(time, player, left, right){

}
```

***Changing the balls colour***

Changing the colour of an object over time is very similar to changing the position.   This is the instruction that we'll need to use:

```transitionColor(key, red, green, blue, alpha, time, callback)```

The only difference here is that instead of giving x, y and z values, we are giving red, green, blue and alpha values.  We want one to go to blue, and one to go to green, so our instructions will look like this:

```transitionColor("blue", 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, setKey("color", "green"))```  
```transitionColor("green", 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, setKey("color", "blue"))```  

If we want, we can also add an instruction that makes the object disappear:

```transitionColor("invisible", 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, setKey("color", "blue"))```

We can do these in any order we want, so lets make it go from blue to green to invisible and then back to blue.

```transitionColor("blue", 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, setKey("color", "green"))```  
```transitionColor("green", 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, setKey("color", "invisible"))```  
```transitionColor("invisible", 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, setKey("color", "blue"))```

Here is our completed script, with a ball moving back and forward, with it's colour changing each time is changes direction:


```javascript
function setup(){

}

function start(){
  var ball = sphere("a sphere");
  wrap(ball)
  .state({
	move: 'left',
	color: 'blue'
  })
  .instruction(transitionPos("left", 1, 0, 0, 1, setKey("move", "right")))
  .instruction(transitionPos("right", -1, 0, 0, 1, setKey("move", "left")))
  .instruction(transitionColor("blue", 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, setKey("color", "green")))
  .instruction(transitionColor("green", 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, setKey("color", "invisible")))
  .instruction(transitionColor("invisible", 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, setKey("color", "blue")));
}

function update(time, player, left, right){

}
```
